# Introduction ([Skip](./index.html#window))

This website is designed to easily compare languages, so you can choose one to learn or start a project with. You can select a language and learn about its features. Then you can select more languages, and view their features side-by-side, for easy comparison. This website *particularly* shows you how each language is unique from others. If you want to learn about a language in general, there are links which provide more information.

There are many types of programming languages, and each has their own purpose, benefits and drawbacks. Some languages are particularly suited for certain types of projects, others are general-purpose. Some languages are designed for fast code, some to clearly express a paradigm (coding style) and its abstractions, and some to simply be interesting and educational.

Practically all languages are flexible enough that they won't ever *limit* you - you can write code in almost any styles, for almost any purpose (e.g. efficient code, a small script), in almost any language. But some languages let have built-in support for certain paradigms, some encourage / discourage you to write a code certain way, and some require you to learn certain concepts. Therefore, it's a good idea to be at least vaguely familiar with the many different languages, and the differences between them. That is exactly why this website exists.

Note that most of the information presented is based on common experience and opinion, meant as suggestions. If you want clarification and particular details, follow the provided links. For example, some languages are be designed for speed, or typically help developers write fast code. These languages would be described as "fast". But of course, you could still write a slow program in a "fast" langauge, or a faster program in a "slow" language.

Ultimately, there's no one "best" language for every project, and even individual projects sometimes benefit from using different languages. For example, a photo-editing application like [Photoshop](https://www.adobe.com/products/photoshop.html) might use a general-purpose language for the UI which lets the user select and apply each type of edit (e.g. blur, distort), a "fast" language to apply the math-intensive edits themselves, and a scripting language to let users create new edits by combining existing ones. Furthermore, the best way to learn about a language is to try it yourself. Therefore, it's recommended that you don't just select one language, but instead experiment with a few of the languages below, to see which ones you prefer, and how much they fit your goals.

---
