# Reflective Statement

When I first took this class, I wasn’t sure what you meant by “Advanced Writing *in the technical professions*”. I thought it would be a traditional writing class where I write about technical topics. To an extent this was true, but the class taught me more: it also taught me how to alter my document appearance and writing style, and write a *particular type of document*, towards a *particular audience*, for a *particular purpose*.

In Unit 1, I wrote an essay like I would’ve in high school, with a similar purpose (to inform) towards a similar audience (outsiders like my teacher). I only needed to find a good topic. However, I analyzed someone else’s document, and figured out *their* genre, purpose, and audience, based on their appearance and writing style. In Unit 2, I selected a genre from a list of 4, planned out my purpose and audience, and wrote all of this explicitly. The entire unit goal was to *explain* my genre, audience, and purpose, and the unit’s purpose was to guide and help implement these concepts in Unit 3. In Unit 3, I actually implemented the concepts, writing a 2000+ word document for an explicit genre, audience, and purpose. I had to make the document look very professional, write very detailed in a formal tone I wasn’t used to, and use subtle ethos and pathos (with not-so-subtle logos) to persuade my specific audience to carry out my proposal. In Unit 4, I got to choose my own genre, audience, and purpose. That made the unit much easier and more fun, because I could write in a tone I was much more familiar with, and add code and design. But on the other hand, I didn’t have any pre-planning or guides - I had to select the audience and figure out how to appeal to them almost by myself. Finally, in the professional portfolio, I wrote a much shorter document towards a particular audience. I only had one week to do so, but the document was smaller, so I focused less on writing and more on these concepts. Furthermore, by Unit 4, and definitely now, I have more experience writing "professional" documents.

In Unit 1, I looked at an ACM article which proposed “clean code guidelines”, directed towards academics and computer-science professionals, with the purpose of explaining how to write clean code. I analyzed how the authors altered their writing style to achieve their goals. This helped me learn how to use those techniques myself. I needed to alter my own writing in future assignments, and I'll need to when I write after the semester. I saw that the ACM article was very formal and specific, since it was directed towards academics and intended to be in the ACM. I had to write a formal document in Unit 3, and I'll write many more if I go to graduate school. But I also saw it didn’t have obscure references or advanced terminology, except when it also had clarification, so it could be understood by industrial developers and managers. Similarly, when I write formal documents, I try not to reference complex concepts without clarification unless I'm sure the audience should know them. I noticed that the writer was very passionate about clean code, which might not have benefitted the article, but nonetheless affected the writing style (and probably influenced them to write the paper). Even this helped me: it shows that it's hard to remove bias from writing, even when it hurts your goal, so I try to accomodate my biases, either by adding explicit "counter-bias" or providing evidence to support them.

Throughout the semester, I changed most of my documents' topics, purposes and goals as I was writing them. This is probably because, even with a lot of pre-planning, it's hard to figure out how much these concepts will affect writing the document, and I need to balance between specifically choosing the concepts and writing a concise, readable, and successful document. I made the most modifications in Units 2 and 3. I completely re-wrote my Unit 2, which was simply a plan for my Unit 3. Even then, once I started Unit 3 I made many more changes, and probably re-wrote most of it after peer revisions. In Unit 2, I started out with an incredibly broad topic and audience, probably because I didn't have much experience. I initially decided to propose an experiment to investigate how many different paradigms help with many different programming goals, and I chose all college professors as my audience (my purpose was to get them to carry out the experiment). Later, I narrowed the purpose down to an experiment on how memory management affects code clarity, which made my document much shorter, and that allowed me to focus on this particilar paradigm and goal, whereas previously I had trouble focusing on anything without making my document too wordy. I narrowed the audience to only teachers at Winthrop High School, and this made it much easier to target my audience: "college professors" in general have many different situations and opinions, but this school was in only one situation, so I could exploit it and add persuasion which might not apply to other schools. I constantly re-organized my Unit 3 - in partcular, I initially put the experiment outline in the middle of the document, then I tried moving it to the beginning, then before the conclusion, until I finally decided to make it an appendix after the rest of the document. I even had to change the sources - as my topic was changing, some of the old sources were no longer helpful, and then I needed to find new ones.

As the semester progressed, I focused less on the writing and more on other aspects, particularly appearance. In Unit 1, I simply wrote an essay, with a works cited. In Unit 2, I added some headings and a bulleted outline, yet it was still mostly paragraphs. In Unit 3 I focused a lot on organization, adding headings and sub-headings, and also tried to make my document look "academic", yet it was still just a paper. However, Unit 4 and my professional portfolio have a very unique appearance, because they're websites, they need to stand out to attract their audiences' attention. My Unit 4 has a unique font (Roboto), a background, icons, and an interactive "window" where viewers can select and compare languages. My portfolio also has a unique font, background, and images, and viewers can open and close "panels" to view the content. The extra emphasis on appearance for Unit 4 initially suprised me - when I got feedback for my Unit 4 draft, most of the comments critisized how my website looked too bland, whereas previously they focused on the writing. However, I understand why appearance was such an important part of the assignment, and why it will also be important in my portfolio. Ultimately, appearance is incredibly important to most writing in the real world. No matter how good your document's writing is, if it doesn't look good people often won't even read it.

I think the biggest thing I learned throughout the semester is that there are many different ways to write the same idea, and none of them are "best". In writing assignments before this class, I probably used 2 writing styles or "voices". I either wrote "formally", and tried to use complex terms and wordy sentences, or I wrote informally and provided a lot of explanation. I used the same "informal" style in Units 1 and 2, but in later assignments, I changed my "voice" depending on my audience. In Unit 3, I was formal and used complex terms, because my audience knew them, but I also tried to keep my document very concise and "up-front", so that it would still be interesting and convey its purpose clearly. In Unit 4 I went back to being informal, but I still omit explanations, and was even more concise than usual. In my portfolio, my writing is probably the most unique, because my genre and audience typically use 2 very different styles. Personal websites are often very informal, brief, and show personality. But I target professionals and academics, which typically expect formal detailed writing, and they don't like opinions, so it's hard to show personality. To try and fit both styles, the website is very concise, and it has some appearance (like a background of nature) where I subtly express my personality. But it's very content-focused, and the content entirely consists of my experience, projects, and other details which would impact a graduate school's (or potentially employer's) decision to accept me. To summarize, before I started the semester, I tried to make my writing as clear and powerful as possible.  Now, I try to make my writing as clear as possible *towards its target audience*, and powerful *towards achieving its target goal*.
